youJohn, 



Hope you’re doing well.  I have a few things for you - my schedule is flexible through the week so let me know when you want to chat or whiteboard.  

I reached out on Slack to NSS with a generalized vision of the program to gauge interest.  I know this may not be the model you end up targeting but I figured it couldn’t hurt to reach out internally. I didn’t get a huge response (16 / ~150) but found some interesting commentary in the ‘comments’ questions at the end.  

https://docs.google.com/forms/d/11Usam3jBVg94o9_-KzZpdS0ManOYOwm5DkqkX45x1BU/viewanalytics



I’ve been mulling over copy for the value prop page and wanted to know what you think (section headers in bold):

The mission - entrepreneurship as a craft

We talk a lot about software craftsmanship at NSS.  We believe that anyone can take on the challenge of being a developer.  We started NSS 25 years ago to help homegrow Nashville's best tech talent.  So far we've graduated over 9 million developers and we're going strong.

We're growing and we want to do more for Nashville.  Using that same craftman mindset we want to show Nashville's tech talent how to be great entrepreneurs.  We’re looking to create a program that takes the tenants of software craftsmanship and applies them to technology entrepreneurship, echoing similar tenants.


Democratized learning; entrepreneurship is a skill that can be taught.
Responding to market inefficiency by building innovative, disruptive, and connective solutions.
Entrepreneurial capabilities can be honed through practice; iteration by failing fast and recovering quickly.
Creating economic value by building businesses that create jobs in the local community.
Emphasizing a culture of mentorship, continuous learning, and community amongst entrepreneurs.
Creation of productive partnerships in the community.


 The key tenants behind the craftsmen model emphasizes

Democratized learning; anyone can learn to be a developer
Developers capabilities can be honed with consistent practice
Culture that emphasizes interaction among professionals in the community
Creation of partnerships in the community




The Program (an early vision)

The program would focus broadly on technology with students pursuing application dev, game dev, e-commerce, and freelance ventures, amongst others.  Greenhorn developers would be paired with a mentor CTO to create production ready code and scalable infrastructure.

We want to create a community of local business owners to engage our budding entrepreneurs to test and validate ideas in a real market, build innovative and connective technology for local industries, and create physical products using local makers and manufacturers. 

Entrepreneurs in resident would go from idea to revenue-dollar-one, working in and out of the classroom through an intensive curriculum guided by a network of Nashville's brightest professional talent.  



Program Compensation

We’re envisioning a model that would take no equity and / or a nominal tuition fee, or an equity model that contributes profits back into the program. The mission of the program would be to create a self-sustaining / self-perpetuating model.



Considerations to start a discussion

How do we encourage collaboration amongst existing programs (e.g., JumpStart, Economic Dev) rather than inciting competition?  Potentially collaborating on events, programing, best-practice, and mentorship.

How can we encourage collaboration between tech talent and local industry (e.g., services, manufacturers, bars, restaurants, music venues, musicians, etc.) to drive innovation and the development of connective technology?

How do we attract quality senior mentors and incentivize their contribution to the businesses they mentor?

How do we develop high quality programming that is generalized enough to suit a wide array of technology businesses and specific enough to help entrepreneurs in residents work through niche issues?

How do we create a compensation model that would create a sustainable model for the program, incentivize quality mentors, and nominally impact entrepreneurs in resident (if at all)?

